Enhancing Security configuration steps (#8058)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _security/configuration/index.md

title: Configuration
nav_order: 2
has_children: true
has_toc: true
redirect_from:
  - /security-plugin/configuration/
  - /security-plugin/configuration/index/
---

# Security configuration

> The plugin includes demo certificates so that you can get up and running quickly. To use OpenSearch in a production environment, you must configure it manually.

Reviewer: "The plugin" => "The Security plugin"? In the second sentence, does "it" refer to OpenSearch or to "the plugin"?

> The plugin includes demo certificates so that you can get up and running quickly. To use OpenSearch in a production environment, you must configure it manually.

Reviewer 2: @natebower: How does this work?

```suggestion
The Security plugin includes demo certificates so that you can get up and running quickly. To use OpenSearch with the Security plugin in a production environment, you must make changes to the demo certificates and other configuration option manually.
```

Reviewer: LGTM, but changed "option" to "options".

## Replace the demo certificates

> OpenSearch ships with demo certificates intended for quick setup and demonstration purposes. For a production environment, it's critical to replace these with your own trusted certificates to ensure secure communication.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OpenSearch ships with demo certificates intended for quick setup and demonstration purposes. For a production environment, it's critical to replace these with your own trusted certificates to ensure secure communication using the following steps:
```

Reviewer: Edited

> 1. **Generate your own certificates:** Use tools like OpenSSL or a certificate authority (CA) to generate your own certificates. For more information about generating certificates with OpenSSL, see [Generating self-signed certificates]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/generate-certificates/).

Reviewer: The list needs to be introduced by a brief sentence ending in a colon that tells the reader why they would follow these steps.

Reviewer 2: See the suggestion on line 18.

3. **Set the following file permissions:**
    - Private key (.key files): Set the file mode to `600`. This restricts access so that only the file owner (the OpenSearch user) can read and write to the file, ensuring that the private key remains secure and inaccessible to unauthorized users.
    - Public certificates (.crt, .pem files): Set the file mode to `644`. This allows the file owner to read and write to the file, while other users can only read it.

For additional guidance on file modes, see the following table.
        
        | Item        | Sample              | Numeric | Bitwise      |
        |-------------|---------------------|---------|--------------|
        | Public key  | `~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub` | `644`   | `-rw-r--r--` |
        | Private key | `~/.ssh/id_rsa`     | `600`   | `-rw-------` |
        | SSH folder  | `~/.ssh`            | `700`   | `drwx------` |

> For more information, see [Configuring basic security settings.]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/install-opensearch/docker/#configuring-basic-security-settings)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see [Configuring basic security settings]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/install-opensearch/docker/#configuring-basic-security-settings).
```

## Reconfigure `opensearch.yml` to use your certificates

> The `opensearch.yml` file is the main configuration file for OpenSearch, you can find the `opensearch.yml` at `<OPENSEARCH_HOME>/config/opensearch.yml`. Use the following steps to update this file to point to your custom certificates for secure communication:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `opensearch.yml` file is the main configuration file for OpenSearch; you can find the file at `<OPENSEARCH_HOME>/config/opensearch.yml`. Use the following steps to update this file to point to your custom certificates:
```

In `opensearch.yml`, set the correct paths for your certificates and keys, as shown in the following example:
   ```
   plugins.security.ssl.transport.pemcert_filepath: /path/to/your/cert.pem
   plugins.security.ssl.transport.pemkey_filepath: /path/to/your/key.pem
   plugins.security.ssl.transport.pemtrustedcas_filepath: /path/to/your/ca.pem
   plugins.security.ssl.http.enabled: true
   plugins.security.ssl.http.pemcert_filepath: /path/to/your/cert.pem
   plugins.security.ssl.http.pemkey_filepath: /path/to/your/key.pem
   plugins.security.ssl.http.pemtrustedcas_filepath: /path/to/your/ca.pem
   ```

> For more information, see [Configuring TLS certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see [Configuring TLS certificates
```

> ]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/).
```

> 

Reviewer: Please join the two lines above.

## Reconfigure `config.yml` to use your authentication backend

The `config.yml` file allows you to configure the authentication and authorization mechanisms for OpenSearch. Update the authentication backend settings in `<OPENSEARCH_HOME>/config/opensearch-security/config.yml` according to your requirements. 

For example, to use LDAP as your authentication backend, add the following settings:

  ```
    authc:
      basic_internal_auth:
        http_enabled: true
        transport_enabled: true
        order: 1
        http_authenticator:
          type: basic
          challenge: true
        authentication_backend:
          type: internal
   ```

> For more information, see [Configuring the Security backend.]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/configuration/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see [Configuring the Security backend]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/configuration/).
```

## Modify the configuration YAML files

> Determine whether any additional YAML files need modification, for example, the `roles.yml`, `roles_mapping.yml`, or `internal_users.yml` files. Update the files with any additional configuration information. For further information, see [Modifying the YAML files.]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/yaml/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Determine whether any additional YAML files need modification, for example, the `roles.yml`, `roles_mapping.yml`, or `internal_users.yml` files. Update the files with any additional configuration information. For more information, see [Modifying the YAML files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/yaml/).
```

2. Run the script by using the following command:
   ```
    ./plugins/opensearch-security/tools/securityadmin.[sh|bat]
   ```
3. Check the OpenSearch logs and configuration to ensure that the changes have been successfully applied.

For more information about using the `securityadmin` script, see [Applying changes to configuration files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/security-admin/).

## Add users, roles, role mappings, and tenants

If you don't want to use the Security plugin, you can disable it by adding the following setting to the `opensearch.yml` file:

```
plugins.security.disabled: true
```

You can then enable the plugin by removing the `plugins.security.disabled` setting.

For more information about disabling the Security plugin, see [Disable security]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/disable-enable-security/).

The Security plugin has several default users, roles, action groups, permissions, and settings for OpenSearch Dashboards that contain "Kibana" in their names. We will change these names in a future version.
{: .note }

> For a full list of `opensearch.yml` security plugin settings, see the [Security settings]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/configuring-opensearch/security-settings/) documentation page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a full list of `opensearch.yml` Security plugin settings, see [Security settings]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/configuring-opensearch/security-settings/).
```

2. Run the script by using the following command:
   ```
    ./plugins/opensearch-security/tools/securityadmin.[sh|bat]
   ```
3. Check the OpenSearch logs and configuration to ensure that the changes have been successfully applied.

For more information about using the `securityadmin.sh` script, see [Backup restore and migrate]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/security-admin/#backup-restore-and-migrate).

### [Add users, roles, role mappings, and tenants]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/access-control/index/)

If you don't want to use the Security plugin, you can disable it by adding the following setting to the `opensearch.yml` file:

```
plugins.security.disabled: true
```

You can then enable the plugin by removing the `plugins.security.disabled` setting.

For more information about disabling the Security plugin, see [Disable security]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/disable-enable-security/).

The Security plugin has several default users, roles, action groups, permissions, and settings for OpenSearch Dashboards that contain "Kibana" in their names. We will change these names in a future version.
{: .note }

> For a full list of `opensearch.yml` Security plugin settings, Security plugin settings, see [Security settings]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/configuring-opensearch/security-settings/).

Reviewer: Should this read "For a full list of `opensearch.yml` Security plugin settings, see Security settings"?

Author: Another great catch thank you.
I have updated it to clearer language.

> The plugin includes demo certificates so that you can get up and running quickly. To use OpenSearch in a production environment, you must configure it manually:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The plugin includes demo certificates so that you can get up and running quickly. To use OpenSearch in a production environment, you must configure it manually.
```

> ### [Replace the demo certificates]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/install-opensearch/docker/#configuring-basic-security-settings)

Reviewer: Global: Are we OK with hyperlinked headings?

Reviewer 2: I'm okay with them personally. Open to another take though.

Reviewer: To clarify, I'm questioning both the utility and the style choice. Why are we linking the reader to different pages if the content relating to the headings is provided underneath them, as expected? If we have a good reason for doing so, then this should be explained to the reader so that it's clear to them for what reason they would need to select the headings to navigate to additional information as opposed to simply reading the current page. It would also be an inconsistent style choice, as I don't know that we do this elsewhere.

Author: Yes I see the point Nate, given it is quite inconsistent, on second thoughts I'll take it out and add any links as per the usual way. Thanks

Author: This is addressed and all links are now added as per the standard approach - thank you.

OpenSearch ships with demo certificates intended for quick setup and demonstration purposes. For a production environment, it's critical to replace these with your own trusted certificates to ensure secure communication by using the following steps:

1. **Generate your own certificates:** Use tools like OpenSSL or a certificate authority (CA) to generate your own certificates. For more information about generating certificates with OpenSSL, see [Generating self-signed certificates]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/generate-certificates/).

> 2. **Place the generated certificates and private key in the appropriate directory:** Generated certificates are typically placed in `<OPENSEARCH_HOME>/config/`. For more information, see [Add certificate files to opensearch.yml]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/generate-certificates/#add-certificate-files-to-opensearchyml).

Reviewer: "Place/placed" => "Save/saved" or "Store/stored"?

Author: Thank you, changed to store and stored.

> 2. **Place the generated certificates and private key in the appropriate directory:** Generated certificates are typically placed in `<OPENSEARCH_HOME>/config/`. For more information, see [Add certificate files to opensearch.yml]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/generate-certificates/#add-certificate-files-to-opensearchyml).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. **Place the generated certificates and private key in the appropriate directory:** Generated certificates are typically stored in `<OPENSEARCH_HOME>/config/`. For more information, see [Add certificate files to opensearch.yml]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/generate-certificates/#add-certificate-files-to-opensearchyml).
```

> 3. **Set following proper file permissions:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Set the following file permissions:**
```

>     - Private Key (.key files): Set the file mode to `600`. This restricts access so that only the file owner (the OpenSearch user) can read and write to the file, ensuring that the private key remains secure and inaccessible to unauthorized users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Private key (.key files): Set the file mode to `600`. This restricts access so that only the file owner (the OpenSearch user) can read and write to the file, ensuring that the private key remains secure and inaccessible to unauthorized users.
```

>     - Public Certificates (.crt, .pem files): Set the file mode to `644`. This allows the file owner to read and write the file, while other users can only read it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Public certificates (.crt, .pem files): Set the file mode to `644`. This allows the file owner to read and write to the file, while other users can only read it.
```

>     - Ownership: Make the files are owned by the OpenSearch user (OpenSearch or similar).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Ownership: Ensure that the files are owned by the OpenSearch user (OpenSearch or similar).
```

> 

Reviewer: Above: What do we mean by "(OpenSearch or similar)"?

> For additional guidance on file modes, see the following table:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For additional guidance on file modes, see the following table.
```

        
        | Item        | Sample              | Numeric | Bitwise      |
        |-------------|---------------------|---------|--------------|

>         | Public Key  | `~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub` | `644`   | `-rw-r--r--` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        | Public key  | `~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub` | `644`   | `-rw-r--r--` |
```

>         | Private Key | `~/.ssh/id_rsa`     | `600`   | `-rw-------` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        | Private key | `~/.ssh/id_rsa`     | `600`   | `-rw-------` |
```

>         | SSH Folder  | `~/.ssh`            | `700`   | `drwx------` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        | SSH folder  | `~/.ssh`            | `700`   | `drwx------` |
```

### [Reconfigure `opensearch.yml` to use your certificates]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/) 

> The `opensearch.yml` file is the main configuration file for OpenSearch. Use the following steps to update this file to point to your custom certificates for secure communication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `opensearch.yml` file is the main configuration file for OpenSearch. Use the following steps to update this file to point to your custom certificates for secure communication:
```

   plugins.security.ssl.transport.pemtrustedcas_filepath: /path/to/your/ca.pem
   plugins.security.ssl.http.enabled: true
   plugins.security.ssl.http.pemcert_filepath: /path/to/your/cert.pem
   plugins.security.ssl.http.pemkey_filepath: /path/to/your/key.pem
   plugins.security.ssl.http.pemtrustedcas_filepath: /path/to/your/ca.pem
   ```

### [Reconfigure `config.yml` to use your authentication backend]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/configuration/)

The `config.yml` file allows you to configure the authentication and authorization mechanisms for OpenSearch. Update the authentication backend settings in `config/opensearch-security/config.yml` according to your requirements. For example, to use LDAP as your authentication backend, add the following settings:

  ```
    authc:
      basic_internal_auth:
        http_enabled: true
        transport_enabled: true
        order: 1
        http_authenticator:
          type: basic
          challenge: true
        authentication_backend:
          type: internal
   ```

### [Modify the configuration YAML files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/yaml/)

> Determine if any additional YAML files need modification, for example the `roles.yml`, `roles_mapping.yml`, `internal_users.yml`. Edit the files with any additional configuration needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Determine whether any additional YAML files need modification, for example, the `roles.yml`, `roles_mapping.yml`, or `internal_users.yml` files. Update the files with any additional configuration information.
```

### [Set a password policy]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/yaml/#password-settings)

> When using the internal user database, we recommend enforcing a password policy to make sure that strong passwords are used. For information strong password policies, see [Password settings]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/yaml/#password-settings).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using the internal user database, we recommend enforcing a password policy to ensure that strong passwords are used. For information about strong password policies, see [Password settings]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/yaml/#password-settings).
```

### [Apply changes using the `securityadmin` script]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/security-admin/)

> The following steps are not required for first-time user because the security index is automatically initialized from the YAML configuration files when OpenSearch starts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following steps do not apply to first-time users because the security index is automatically initialized from the YAML configuration files when OpenSearch starts.
```

{: .note}

> After initial setup, if you make changes to your security configuration or if you disable automatic initialization by setting `plugins.security.allow_default_init_securityindex` to `false` (setting to prevent security index initializing from `yaml` files), you need to manually apply changes using the `securityadmin` script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After initial setup, if you make changes to your security configuration or disable automatic initialization by setting `plugins.security.allow_default_init_securityindex` to `false` (which prevents security index initialization from `yaml` files), you need to manually apply changes using the `securityadmin` script:
```

> 1. Find the `securityadmin` script. The script is typically found in the OpenSearch plugins directory, `plugins/opensearch-security/tools/securityadmin.sh`. If you're using OpenSearch 1.x, the `securityadmin` script was located in the `plugins/opendistro_security/tools/` directory. For additional information refer to [basic usage](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/security/configuration/security-admin/#basic-usage).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Find the `securityadmin` script. The script is typically stored in the OpenSearch plugins directory, `plugins/opensearch-security/tools/securityadmin.sh`. If you're using OpenSearch 1.x, the `securityadmin` script is located in the `plugins/opendistro_security/tools/` directory. For more information, see [Basic usage](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/security/configuration/security-admin/#basic-usage).
```

2. Run the script by using the following command:
   ```
    ./plugins/opensearch-security/tools/securityadmin.[sh|bat]
   ```
3. Check the OpenSearch logs and configuration to ensure that the changes have been successfully applied.

> For further information about using the `securityadmin.sh` script, see [Backup restore and migrate]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/security-admin/#backup-restore-and-migrate)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about using the `securityadmin.sh` script, see [Backup restore and migrate]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/security-admin/#backup-restore-and-migrate).
```

### [Add users, roles, role mappings, and tenants]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/access-control/index/)

If you don't want to use the Security plugin, you can disable it by adding the following setting to the `opensearch.yml` file:

```
plugins.security.disabled: true
```

You can then enable the plugin by removing the `plugins.security.disabled` setting.

> For further information on disabling the Security plugin check the documentation, see [Disable security]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/disable-enable-security/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about disabling the Security plugin, see [Disable security]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/disable-enable-security/).
```

> The Security plugin has several default users, roles, action groups, permissions, and settings for OpenSearch Dashboards that use kibana in their names. We will change these names in a future release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Security plugin has several default users, roles, action groups, permissions, and settings for OpenSearch Dashboards that contain "Kibana" in their names. We will change these names in a future version.
```

> {: .note }

Reviewer: There is redundant text in the final sentence of the file.

   plugins.security.ssl.transport.pemcert_filepath: /path/to/your/cert.pem
   plugins.security.ssl.transport.pemkey_filepath: /path/to/your/key.pem
   plugins.security.ssl.transport.pemtrustedcas_filepath: /path/to/your/ca.pem
   plugins.security.ssl.http.enabled: true
   plugins.security.ssl.http.pemcert_filepath: /path/to/your/cert.pem
   plugins.security.ssl.http.pemkey_filepath: /path/to/your/key.pem
   plugins.security.ssl.http.pemtrustedcas_filepath: /path/to/your/ca.pem
   ```

### [Reconfigure `config.yml` to use your authentication backend]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/configuration/)

The `config.yml` file allows you to configure the authentication and authorization mechanisms for OpenSearch. Update the authentication backend settings in `config/opensearch-security/config.yml` according to your requirements. For example, to use LDAP as your authentication backend, add the following settings:

  ```
    authc:
      basic_internal_auth:
        http_enabled: true
        transport_enabled: true
        order: 1
        http_authenticator:
          type: basic
          challenge: true
        authentication_backend:
          type: internal
   ```

> ### [Modify the configuration YAML files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/yaml/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### [Modify the configuration YAML files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/yaml/)
```

### [Apply changes using the `securityadmin` script]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/security-admin/)

The following steps are not required for first-time user because the security index is automatically initialized from the YAML configuration files when OpenSearch starts.
{: .note}

After initial setup, if you make changes to your security configuration or if you disable automatic initialization by setting `plugins.security.allow_default_init_securityindex` to `false` (setting to prevent security index initializing from `yaml` files), you need to manually apply changes using the `securityadmin` script.

1. Find the `securityadmin` script. The script is typically found in the OpenSearch plugins directory, `plugins/opensearch-security/tools/securityadmin.sh`. If you're using OpenSearch 1.x, the `securityadmin` script was located in the `plugins/opendistro_security/tools/` directory. 

> 2. Run the script with the appropriate parameters by using the following command:

Reviewer 2: @cwperks: How would I know what the appropriate parameters are?

Author: The appropriate parameters are given in the example that immediately follows. I have made this clearer by making the example clearer (by giving it in the same format as is on the other documentation page: [Applying changes to configuration files](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/security/configuration/security-admin/)). 

And also by providing links to other relevant pages with more information: [Applying changes to configuration files](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/security/configuration/security-admin/) & [securityadmin.sh Troubleshooting](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/troubleshoot/security-admin/)

Thanks Nate!

Reviewer 3: @Naarcha-AWS You can find the commands in the Basic Usage section here: https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/security/configuration/security-admin/#basic-usage

   ```
   ./securityadmin.sh -cd ../securityconfig/ -icl -key /path/to/admin-key.pem -cert /path/to/admin-cert.pem -cacert /path/to/root-ca.pem -nhnv
   ```

3. Check the OpenSearch logs and configuration to ensure that the changes have been successfully applied.

For further information about using the `securityadmin.sh` script, see [Backup restore and migrate](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/security/configuration/security-admin#backup-restore-and-migrate/)

> ### Start OpenSearch.

Reviewer 2: I can start OpenSearch after I've configured these settings? Is this page supposed to be a configuration quickstart or an overview of what I can configure in the Security Plugin? Do I have to run all of the steps in this header, or can I pick and choose the settings based on my requirements?

> ### Start OpenSearch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

> ### [Add users, roles, role mappings, and tenants]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/access-control/index/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### [Add users, roles, role mappings, and tenants]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/access-control/index/)
```

The plugin includes demo certificates so that you can get up and running quickly. To use OpenSearch in a production environment, you must configure it manually:

### [Replace the demo certificates]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/install-opensearch/docker/#configuring-basic-security-settings).

OpenSearch ships with demo certificates intended for quick setup and demonstration purposes. For a production environment, it's critical to replace these with your own trusted certificates to ensure secure communication by using the following steps:

> 1. **Generate your own certificates:** Use tools like OpenSSL or a certificate authority (CA) to generate your own certificates. For more information on generating certificates with OpenSSL, visit: [Generating self-signed certificates](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/security/configuration/generate-certificates/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **Generate your own certificates:** Use tools like OpenSSL or a certificate authority (CA) to generate your own certificates. For more information about generating certificates with OpenSSL, see [Generating self-signed certificates]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/generate-certificates/).
```

Author: Hi @Naarcha-AWS I've answered that question about the parameters and responded here on the. PR. I also clarified the documentation too, Thanks.

> 2. **Place the generated certificates and private key in the appropriate directory:** Generated certificates are typically placed in `<OPENSEARCH_HOME>/config/`. For more information, see [Add certificate files to opensearch.yml](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/security/configuration/generate-certificates/#add-certificate-files-to-opensearchyml/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. **Place the generated certificates and private key in the appropriate directory:** Generated certificates are typically placed in `<OPENSEARCH_HOME>/config/`. For more information, see [Add certificate files to opensearch.yml]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/generate-certificates/#add-certificate-files-to-opensearchyml).
```

> 2. **Place the generated certificates and private key in the appropriate directory:** Generated ceriifcates are typically placed in `<OPENSEARCH_HOME>/config/`. For more information, see [Add certificate files to opensearch.yml](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/security/configuration/generate-certificates/#add-certificate-files-to-opensearchyml/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. **Place the generated certificates and private key in the appropriate directory:** Generated certificates are typically placed in `<OPENSEARCH_HOME>/config/`. For more information, see [Add certificate files to opensearch.yml](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/security/configuration/generate-certificates/#add-certificate-files-to-opensearchyml/).
```

   plugins.security.ssl.http.pemkey_filepath: /path/to/your/key.pem
   plugins.security.ssl.http.pemtrustedcas_filepath: /path/to/your/ca.pem
   ```

### [Reconfigure `config.yml` to use your authentication backend]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/configuration/)

The `config.yml` file allows you to configure the authentication and authorization mechanisms for OpenSearch. Update the authentication backend settings in `config/opensearch-security/config.yml` according to your requirements. For example, to use LDAP as your authentication backend, add the following settings:

  ```
    authc:
      basic_internal_auth:
        http_enabled: true
        transport_enabled: true
        order: 1
        http_authenticator:
          type: basic
          challenge: true
        authentication_backend:
          type: internal
   ```

### [Modify the configuration YAML files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/yaml/)

Determine if any additional YAML files need modification, for example the `roles.yml`, `roles_mapping.yml`, `internal_users.yml`. Edit the files with any additional configuration needed.

> ### [Set a password policy]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/yaml/#password-settings/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### [Set a password policy]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/yaml/#password-settings)
```

> When using the internal user database, we recommend enforcing a password policy to make sure that strong passwords are used. For information strong password policies, see [set a password policy in `opensearch.yml`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/yaml/#opensearchyml).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When using the internal user database, we recommend enforcing a password policy to make sure that strong passwords are used. For information strong password policies, see [Password settings]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/yaml/#password-settings).
```

1. Find the `securityadmin` script. The script is typically found in the OpenSearch plugins directory, `plugins/opensearch-security/tools/securityadmin.sh`. If you're using OpenSearch 1.x, the `securityadmin` script was located in the `plugins/opendistro_security/tools/` directory. For additional information refer to [Applying changes to configuration files](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/security/configuration/security-admin/), or if in need of further assistance visit [securityadmin.sh Troubleshooting](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/troubleshoot/security-admin/).
2. Run the script with the appropriate parameters by using the following command:

   ```
    ./securityadmin[.sh|.bat] -backup my-backup-directory \
    -icl \
    -nhnv \
    -cacert ../../../config/root-ca.pem \
    -cert ../../../config/kirk.pem \
    -key ../../../config/kirk-key.pem
   ```

3. Check the OpenSearch logs and configuration to ensure that the changes have been successfully applied.

> For further information about using the `securityadmin.sh` script, see [Backup restore and migrate]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/security-admin/#backup-restore-and-migrate/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For further information about using the `securityadmin.sh` script, see [Backup restore and migrate]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/security-admin/#backup-restore-and-migrate)
```

> For further information about using the `securityadmin.sh` script, see [Backup restore and migrate](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/security/configuration/security-admin#backup-restore-and-migrate/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For further information about using the `securityadmin.sh` script, see [Backup restore and migrate]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/security-admin/#backup-restore-and-migrate/)
```

The plugin includes demo certificates so that you can get up and running quickly. To use OpenSearch in a production environment, you must configure it manually:

### [Replace the demo certificates]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/install-opensearch/docker/#configuring-basic-security-settings).

> 1. OpenSearch ships with demo certificates intended for quick setup and testing purposes. For a production environment, it's critical to replace these with your own trusted certificates to ensure secure communication.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. OpenSearch ships with demo certificates intended for quick setup and demonstration purposes. For a production environment, it's critical to replace these with your own trusted certificates to ensure secure communication.
```

The plugin includes demo certificates so that you can get up and running quickly. To use OpenSearch in a production environment, you must configure it manually:

1. [Replace the demo certificates]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/install-opensearch/docker/#configuring-basic-security-settings).
- OpenSearch ships with demo certificates intended for quick setup and testing purposes. For a production environment, it's critical to replace these with your own trusted certificates to ensure secure communication.
  
- Steps:

>   - Generate your own certificates: Use tools like OpenSSL or a certificate authority (CA) to generate your own certificates.

Reviewer 3: wdyt about linking to https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/security/configuration/generate-certificates/?

>   - Place generated certificates and private key to the appropriate OpenSearch directory.

Reviewer 3: Is this accurate? Typically they are placed in `<OPENSEARCH_HOME>/config`/, but could be placed anywhere on the fs that the user running opensearch can read from.

>   - Update file permissions: Ensure the files are accessible by the OpenSearch service user and have proper permissions set to avoid unauthorized access.

Reviewer 3: Is there a recommended file mode? Is it different for public vs private keys?

2. [Reconfigure `opensearch.yml` to use your certificates]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls). 
- The `opensearch.yml` file is the main configuration file for OpenSearch. Update this file to point to your custom certificates for secure communication.
- Steps:
  - Open `opensearch.yml`: Locate and open the `opensearch.yml` file in your preferred text editor.
  - Update paths to certificates and keys: Set the correct paths for your certificates and keys in the `opensearch.yml` file. For example:
```json
plugins.security.ssl.transport.pemcert_filepath: /path/to/your/cert.pem
plugins.security.ssl.transport.pemkey_filepath: /path/to/your/key.pem
plugins.security.ssl.transport.pemtrustedcas_filepath: /path/to/your/ca.pem
plugins.security.ssl.http.enabled: true
plugins.security.ssl.http.pemcert_filepath: /path/to/your/cert.pem
plugins.security.ssl.http.pemkey_filepath: /path/to/your/key.pem
plugins.security.ssl.http.pemtrustedcas_filepath: /path/to/your/ca.pem
```

> 3. [Reconfigure `config.yml` to use your authentication backend]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/configuration/) (if you don't plan to use the internal user database).

Reviewer 3: nit: remove `(if you don't plan to use the internal user database).`

Users will always need to configured at least 1 authc backend. If they are using the demo configuration then the internal users is already enabled for demonstration purposes.

- The `config.yml` file allows you to configure the authentication and authorization mechanisms for OpenSearch.
- Update the authentication backend settings in `config/opensearch-security/config.yml` according to your requirements. For example, to use LDAP:

>     ```json

Reviewer 3: nit: formatting

    authc:
    ldap:
    http_enabled: true
    transport_enabled: true
    order: 1
    http_authenticator:
    type: basic
    challenge: true
    authentication_backend:
    type: ldap
    config:
    ```
  
4. [Modify the configuration YAML files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/yaml).

Determine which additional YAML files need modification, for example the `roles.yml`, `roles_mapping.yml`, `internal_users.yml`, etc.
Edit the files: Open each required file in your preferred text editor and make the necessary adjustments. For example, adding roles or updating role mappings:

5. If you plan to use the internal user database, [set a password policy in `opensearch.yml`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/yaml/#opensearchyml).
- If you opt to use the internal user database for authentication, it is advisable to enforce a password policy to ensure strong passwords.

>   1. Open `opensearch.yml` and add or update the password policy settings.

Reviewer 3: Add a link to where someone can find more information on how to set these or add the settings directly in here.

> 6. [Apply changes using the `securityadmin` script]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/security-admin).

Reviewer 3: This may be confusing to some first time users. In the demo configuration, the security index is automatically sourced from the yaml files and securityadmin is only needed to apply changes. 

If a user sets `plugins.security.allow_default_init_securityindex` to `false` then it would be required to run securityadmin since that setting prevents the security index to initialize from yaml files by default.

- After configuring the necessary settings, apply changes to OpenSearch using the securityadmin script.

> - Locate the securityadmin script: Typically found in the OpenSearch plugins directory e.g., `plugins/opensearch-security/tools/securityadmin.sh`.

Reviewer 3: wdyt about adding a note here for 1.X users. This file was located in a different directory prior to 2.0.
